OK in this lesson we are going to explore more deeply some of the things that we can do with sagas so
that we can get a better understanding as well of how the saga library works.
Now unfortunately we have to step outside of our existing library in order to take a better understanding
of just the base functionality of some of these other effects that we've explored inside of read saga
and to demonstrate.
We have a very simple application that is pretty much just a typical numbers logger.
We have this button that increases the number and then this other button that decreases the number and
all it is is.
It's a simple reducer right that holds a value number.
And then depending on the action if it's an increment or decrement it increases or decreases the value.
And then our component just pulls in both the action creator.
Right.
That will dispatch an increment or dispatch a decrement action and pull in the value of the prop as
well and set it to the value which we then just display inside of a simple component very simple application
setup.
The main thing that we want to demonstrate here is our ability to understand what sagas can do so inside
of our code we have this app saga file that we can write our sagas for the first time.
And what we want to do is we want to look at the difference between some of the at the very least the
base listener effects that I talked about so we want for example we're going to look at the base one.
So we've seen take every but there's actually a base.
Take one as well and there is a difference of what it does.
So I'm going to explain to you what this one does.
Right just the base take and how it differs from take every and take the latest.
Which is another one that we're gonna look at.
So here we just want to look at take.
Now we don't want to write a very basic saga so I'm going to export a saga function called Basic or
I'm going to increment saga.
Now what we're going to do is we're going to yield to our take function and our take is just expecting
the increment keyword unlike take every we don't pass to it anything in the second argument instead
what take does is it waits for this action of increment to happen when it does we're able to actually
get the payload from this action as well if we want it to if we wanted to what take does is it gives
us back as a promise that gets resolved the actual payload value of this action.
If we had one if we wanted to set it we could just say increment payload and we would set it like that.
That's the main benefit of take the other thing about take is that the rest of the code does not execute
until this take operates.
So it's pretty much the same as take every.
The only difference is that we would write out our function respectively.
So if we wrote a console log here I am incremented Well we would not expect this code to ever log until
our increment action is caught by our increment saga now in order for us to test this we have to bring
this into our store.
So we'll just import in our increment saga from our app saga and run it inside of our app middleware
run and now if we open up our logger we'll see that when we hit add one we are firing our I am incremented
because now we have actually triggered the action but one of the big differences between take and take
every as we use in our clothing application will notice that whenever we click and fire off the increment
action again we're not actually triggering.
Ah I am incremented console logs anymore Well this is actually because take is following just the basic
generator function that we learned about a few lessons ago.
Do you remember when we learned our generator lesson that we were able to call next until we ran the
yields.
And then on the last.
Next that we called we would get either no value if we don't return anything from our generator function
right.
But the completed property would say true and then we would never be able to restart our saga.
Right.
Which is the nature of Saga.
You cannot go back into the saga and then start from top to bottom again.
Well this is interesting because when we noticed would take every take every kicks off a new task right.
Using the generator that we passed to it as its second argument for every increment action that comes
in.
So let's explore that a little further let's make a new function or another generator function called
on increment.
Let's just say that inside we yield a console log I am increment so instead of being take we used take
every and then we fire on increment.
Now what's happening here is that when ever we trigger this action under the hood redux saga is firing
off a new task to run our on increment saga code.
So every time I am incremented is being fired redux saga is actually regenerating that generator right.
It's calling this on increment generator again and again and again and again.
So it's not running through the same increment saga.
Instead what it's doing is it's looping and listening for every increment call and then creating new
iterations or new tasks that are equivalent to whatever generator function that we pass to it and that's
the big benefit of using take every because now we're able to actually loop and reuse this increment
code more than one time and listen to all actions that come from increment we can actually write this
ourselves manually with take using a while loop.
So if you are familiar with a while loop what a while loop does is it essentially executes the code
inside of this block based on this conditional one the block is finished executing it goes back up and
it checks the conditional again if the conditional is still true it reruns the block again.
So if we force true will actually be able to run a yield on our take where we can say increment like
this and then let's just import take as well let's copy that over and now we'll see that no matter how
many times we fire off this action this code will work because our generator function never completes
it will always go back into the while loop and get stuck because our conditional is true so it'll always
say you'll take increment.
It's true.
OK I'm gonna console log I'm incremented.
In fact we won't even need to yield it.
But that's what'll happen.
It'll say I am incremented and then it will redo the loop because our conditional is true and it will
always be ready to take new increments every time an increment action comes in it console logs I am
incremented it then restarts at the top of our while loop.
This is pretty much a way of seeing what take every does for us.
The only difference will take every is that take every also spawns these new sagas write these new task
based sagas concurrently which means that it's non blocking which means that technically speaking if
I were to put imagine a set time up here.
In fact we can get an effect called delay from radar saga which is the HREOC saga way of doing so time
outs if I were to yield delay and I pass it 5000 milliseconds like this.
You'll see that when I click it the first time I get I'm incremented if I click it a second time the
third time and the fourth time you see it's not working right because this code right now is being blocked
by this delay this delay five thousand you can imagine like an asynchronous code.
If we had some API request here instead what's happening is that we're whole function is frozen waiting
for this delay to finish.
If it was an API request it's waiting for that API request to come back now that five thousand seconds
are five thousand milliseconds is passed though if we fire again we'll see that our code continues to
work right.
That's the main difference is that this code is blocking any future take increments coming in from being
called whereas take every is creating new sub tasks.
It's spawning new sagas for every increment action to come in which means that 3 increment actions are
running on three new on increment sagas meaning that if our code goes back to using our take every instead
so we'll say increment and we'll pass an hour on increment
inside of here we had a delay of 5000.
This does not stop every other action as you can see from getting the I am incremented code from running
because again take every is spawning new sagas on every increment action coming in.
Now I'm not going to say which way is the right way to do it because they're both just patterns you
might want for example code to be blocking right.
You might want to write it with that while loop using a regular take.
If we want to de bounce requests write de bounce meaning that let's say we don't want them in 5000 milliseconds
to be able to spawn and fire multiple sagas.
Right.
We don't want them to run multiple console logs or if we had more complex logic here we don't want them
to run that multiple times back to back maybe we want to bounce those clicks maybe we want to wait for
the first one to finish or maybe what we want to do is wait for the last one we want to cancel any of
the previous sagas that were fired.
So here's an interesting thing that we can do.
Let's say for example we wait on this increment action to come in but instead what we do is we have
a separate action that actually increments the reducer.
So what do I mean by this.
Well right now we're listening for increment to increment.
What if we say increment from saga is the action that actually triggers this what we would then be able
to do is take our put affect and after a delay of three thousand milliseconds we would then actually
fire off our increment from saga and this would be the actual way for us to actually increment from
soccer right there's always a three thousand second delay.
You can imagine that this is some kind of asynchronous request.
Now what happens if I click this three times after three seconds.
We'll see that our increment from socket resolves as we would expect after the delay we end up firing
our new increment from Saga action.
The updates are reducer but what if what we wanted to do was that we only wanted the last one the last
click within these three thousand milliseconds right before any of them resolved to be the actual one
that does get resolved while we can use
take effect that we're going to look at in this lesson called take latest.
Now what happens is that no matter how many times I click this it will cancel all the previous ones
and only trigger the latest one that was clicked.
In fact you'll see that I am incremented is still getting logged because this first yield is synchronous.
So each on increment that gets fired in our take latest is still immediately resolving it's still spawning
a new saga.
Every time we clicked but because our delay is 3000 seconds meaning that our function right our generator
function here is stuck here for three thousand milliseconds.
Remember when I said with yields were yielding control back to our saga middleware library so that it
can cancel any of the ongoing saga if it wanted to.
This is exactly what's happening when we do take latest even though these new spawn sagas whenever we
clicked increment are being generated hence why we saw the I am incremented on every click.
We only ended up resolving one increment from saga because whenever it hit the delay and those latest
clicks were coming in HREOC saga was actually cancelling every previous spawn saga that was generated
except for the latest one.
That is the big deal with redux saga.
This is pretty much the core of the architecture of how sagas are formulated and this hopefully explains
to you how we can leverage redux saga to give us many different effects such as deep bouncing but also
it allows us to understand how with sagas we can cancel them so that they don't take up more time but
also how it allows us to run multiple tasks concurrently in our background.
Now I'm hoping that this all makes sense.
This is pretty much the basics of how sagas work now with this information.
We're going to move on into the next lesson where we're going to make importing sagas into our store
a little easier.
But if you're confused please watch this video.
The more you watch it the more you see the differences between take understanding generator functions.
Understanding this idea of creating new sagas write the better you'll be able to understand what's actually
happening with sagas.